README.md, before:

## UIScrollView+InfiniteScroll

Infinite scroll implementation as a category for UIScrollView.

Be aware that this category swizzles `setContentOffset` and `setContentSize` on `UIScrollView`.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pronebird/UIScrollView-InfiniteScroll/master/README%20images/InfiniteScroll1.gif" width="25%" align="left" hspace="10" vspace="10">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pronebird/UIScrollView-InfiniteScroll/master/README%20images/InfiniteScroll2.gif" width="25%" hspace="10" vspace="10">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pronebird/UIScrollView-InfiniteScroll/master/README%20images/InfiniteScroll3.gif" width="25%" hspace="10" vspace="10">

\* The content used in demo app is publicly available and provided by hn.algolia.com and Flickr. Both can be inappropriate.

### CocoaPods

Just add the following line in your Podfile:

```ruby
pod 'UIScrollView-InfiniteScroll'
```

### Basic usage

Objective-C:

```objc
// Somewhere in your implementation file
#import <UIScrollView+InfiniteScroll.h>

// ...

- (void)viewDidLoad {
    [super viewDidLoad];

    // change indicator view style to white
    self.tableView.infiniteScrollIndicatorStyle = UIActivityIndicatorViewStyleWhite;

    // setup infinite scroll
    [self.tableView addInfiniteScrollWithHandler:^(UITableView* tableView) {
        //
        // fetch your data here, can be async operation,
        // just make sure to call finishInfiniteScroll in the end
        //
        
        // make sure you reload tableView before calling -finishInfiniteScroll
        [tableView reloadData];

        // finish infinite scroll animation
        [tableView finishInfiniteScroll];
    }];
}
```

Swift

Before using InfiniteScroll you have to add the following line in your bridging header file: 

```objc
#import <UIScrollView_InfiniteScroll/UIScrollView+InfiniteScroll.h>
```

```swift
override func viewDidLoad() {
    super.viewDidLoad()
    
    // change indicator view style to white
    tableView.infiniteScrollIndicatorStyle = .White
    
    // Add infinite scroll handler
    tableView.addInfiniteScrollWithHandler { (scrollView) -> Void in
        let tableView = scrollView as! UITableView
        
        //
        // fetch your data here, can be async operation,
        // just make sure to call finishInfiniteScroll in the end
        //
        
        // make sure you reload tableView before calling -finishInfiniteScroll
        tableView.reloadData()
        
        // finish infinite scroll animation
        tableView.finishInfiniteScroll()
    }
}
```

#### Collection view quirks

`UICollectionView#reloadData` causes contentOffset to reset. Please use `UICollectionView#performBatchUpdates` instead when possible.

Objective-C:

```objc
// Somewhere in your implementation file
#import <UIScrollView+InfiniteScroll.h>

// ...

- (void)viewDidLoad {
    [super viewDidLoad];
    
    __weak typeof(self) weakSelf = self;

    [self.collectionView addInfiniteScrollWithHandler:^(UICollectionView* collectionView) {
        //
        // fetch your data here, can be async operation,
        // just make sure to call finishInfiniteScroll in the end
        //
        
        // suppose this is an array with new data
        NSArray *newStories;
        
        NSMutableArray *indexPaths = [NSMutableArray new];
        NSInteger index = weakSelf.allStories.count;
    
        // create index paths for affected items
        for(Story *story in newStories) {
            NSIndexPath *indexPath = [NSIndexPath indexPathForItem:index++ inSection:0];

            [weakSelf.allStories addObject:story];
            [indexPaths addObject:indexPath];
        }
        
        // Update collection view
        [collectionView performBatchUpdates:^{
            // add new items into collection
            [collectionView insertItemsAtIndexPaths:indexPaths];
        } completion:^(BOOL finished) {
            // finish infinite scroll animations
            [collectionView finishInfiniteScroll];
        }];
    }];
}
```

Swift: 

```swift
override func viewDidLoad() {
    super.viewDidLoad()
    
    // Add infinite scroll handler
    collectionView?.addInfiniteScrollWithHandler { [weak self] (scrollView) -> Void in
        let collectionView = scrollView as! UICollectionView
        
        // suppose this is an array with new data
        let newStories = [Story]()
        
        var indexPaths = [NSIndexPath]()
        let index = self?.allStories.count
        
        // create index paths for affected items
        for story in newStories {
            let indexPath = NSIndexPath(forItem: index++, inSection: 0)
            
            indexPaths.append(indexPath)
            self?.allStories.append(story)
        }
        
        // Update collection view
        collectionView.performBatchUpdates({ () -> Void in
            // add new items into collection
            collectionView.insertItemsAtIndexPaths(indexPaths)
        }, completion: { (finished) -> Void in
            // finish infinite scroll animations
            collectionView.finishInfiniteScroll()
        });
        
    }
}
```

### Custom indicator

You can use custom indicator instead of default `UIActivityIndicatorView`.

Custom indicator must be a subclass of `UIView` and implement the following methods:

```objc
- (void)startAnimating;
- (void)stopAnimating;
```

Objective-C: 
```objc
// optionally you can use custom indicator view
CustomInfiniteIndicator *infiniteIndicator = [[CustomInfiniteIndicator alloc] initWithFrame:CGRectMake(0, 0, 40, 40)];

self.tableView.infiniteScrollIndicatorView = indicator;
```

Swift: 
```swift
// optionally you can use custom indicator view
tableView.infiniteScrollIndicatorView = CustomInfiniteIndicator(frame: CGRectMake(0, 0, 24, 24))
```

Please see example implementation of indicator view:

* Objective-C: [CustomInfiniteIndicator.m](https://github.com/pronebird/UIScrollView-InfiniteScroll/blob/master/InfiniteScrollViewDemo/CustomInfiniteIndicator.m)

* Swift: [CustomInfiniteIndicator.swift](https://github.com/pronebird/UIScrollView-InfiniteScroll/blob/master/InfiniteScrollViewDemoSwift/CustomInfiniteIndicator.swift)

At the moment InfiniteScroll uses indicator's frame directly so make sure you size custom indicator view beforehand. Such views as `UIImageView` or `UIActivityIndicatorView` will automatically resize themselves so no need to setup frame for them.

### Contributors

* Shigeyuki Takeuchi [@takeshig](https://github.com/takeshig)<br/>
  Add Carthage support
* Ivan Chirkov [@nsleader](https://github.com/nsleader)<br/>
  Custom indicators support
* Alex Shevchenko [@skeeet](https://github.com/skeeet)<br/>
  Fix for bounce back glitch when content size is smaller than view bounds
* Vlad [brightsider](https://github.com/brightsider)<br/>
  Add access to check loading status

### Attributions

Demo app icon by [PixelResort](http://appicontemplate.com/ios8/).

Commit message:

Add quirks for tableviews using insertRowsAtIndexPaths

README.md, after:

## UIScrollView+InfiniteScroll

Infinite scroll implementation as a category for UIScrollView.

Be aware that this category swizzles `setContentOffset` and `setContentSize` on `UIScrollView`.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pronebird/UIScrollView-InfiniteScroll/master/README%20images/InfiniteScroll1.gif" width="25%" align="left" hspace="10" vspace="10">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pronebird/UIScrollView-InfiniteScroll/master/README%20images/InfiniteScroll2.gif" width="25%" hspace="10" vspace="10">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pronebird/UIScrollView-InfiniteScroll/master/README%20images/InfiniteScroll3.gif" width="25%" hspace="10" vspace="10">

\* The content used in demo app is publicly available and provided by hn.algolia.com and Flickr. Both can be inappropriate.

### CocoaPods

Just add the following line in your Podfile:

```ruby
pod 'UIScrollView-InfiniteScroll'
```

### Basic usage

Objective-C:

```objc
// Somewhere in your implementation file
#import <UIScrollView+InfiniteScroll.h>

// ...

- (void)viewDidLoad {
    [super viewDidLoad];

    // change indicator view style to white
    self.tableView.infiniteScrollIndicatorStyle = UIActivityIndicatorViewStyleWhite;

    // setup infinite scroll
    [self.tableView addInfiniteScrollWithHandler:^(UITableView* tableView) {
        //
        // fetch your data here, can be async operation,
        // just make sure to call finishInfiniteScroll in the end
        //
        
        // make sure you reload tableView before calling -finishInfiniteScroll
        [tableView reloadData];

        // finish infinite scroll animation
        [tableView finishInfiniteScroll];
    }];
}
```

Swift

Before using InfiniteScroll you have to add the following line in your bridging header file: 

```objc
#import <UIScrollView_InfiniteScroll/UIScrollView+InfiniteScroll.h>
```

```swift
override func viewDidLoad() {
    super.viewDidLoad()
    
    // change indicator view style to white
    tableView.infiniteScrollIndicatorStyle = .White
    
    // Add infinite scroll handler
    tableView.addInfiniteScrollWithHandler { (scrollView) -> Void in
        let tableView = scrollView as! UITableView
        
        //
        // fetch your data here, can be async operation,
        // just make sure to call finishInfiniteScroll in the end
        //
        
        // make sure you reload tableView before calling -finishInfiniteScroll
        tableView.reloadData()
        
        // finish infinite scroll animation
        tableView.finishInfiniteScroll()
    }
}
```

#### Table view quirks

If you are using `insertSections` and `insertRowsAtIndexPaths` instead of `reloadData`, you need to force the tableView to update its `contentSize` before making the call to `finishInfiniteScroll()`:

```objc
tableView.contentSize = [tableView sizeThatFits:CGSizeMake(tableView.bounds.size.width, CGFLOAT_MAX)];
```

```swift
tableView.contentSize = tableView.sizeThatFits(CGSize(width: tableView.bounds.size.width, height: CGFloat.max))
```

#### Collection view quirks

`UICollectionView#reloadData` causes contentOffset to reset. Please use `UICollectionView#performBatchUpdates` instead when possible.

Objective-C:

```objc
// Somewhere in your implementation file
#import <UIScrollView+InfiniteScroll.h>

// ...

- (void)viewDidLoad {
    [super viewDidLoad];
    
    __weak typeof(self) weakSelf = self;

    [self.collectionView addInfiniteScrollWithHandler:^(UICollectionView* collectionView) {
        //
        // fetch your data here, can be async operation,
        // just make sure to call finishInfiniteScroll in the end
        //
        
        // suppose this is an array with new data
        NSArray *newStories;
        
        NSMutableArray *indexPaths = [NSMutableArray new];
        NSInteger index = weakSelf.allStories.count;
    
        // create index paths for affected items
        for(Story *story in newStories) {
            NSIndexPath *indexPath = [NSIndexPath indexPathForItem:index++ inSection:0];

            [weakSelf.allStories addObject:story];
            [indexPaths addObject:indexPath];
        }
        
        // Update collection view
        [collectionView performBatchUpdates:^{
            // add new items into collection
            [collectionView insertItemsAtIndexPaths:indexPaths];
        } completion:^(BOOL finished) {
            // finish infinite scroll animations
            [collectionView finishInfiniteScroll];
        }];
    }];
}
```

Swift: 

```swift
override func viewDidLoad() {
    super.viewDidLoad()
    
    // Add infinite scroll handler
    collectionView?.addInfiniteScrollWithHandler { [weak self] (scrollView) -> Void in
        let collectionView = scrollView as! UICollectionView
        
        // suppose this is an array with new data
        let newStories = [Story]()
        
        var indexPaths = [NSIndexPath]()
        let index = self?.allStories.count
        
        // create index paths for affected items
        for story in newStories {
            let indexPath = NSIndexPath(forItem: index++, inSection: 0)
            
            indexPaths.append(indexPath)
            self?.allStories.append(story)
        }
        
        // Update collection view
        collectionView.performBatchUpdates({ () -> Void in
            // add new items into collection
            collectionView.insertItemsAtIndexPaths(indexPaths)
        }, completion: { (finished) -> Void in
            // finish infinite scroll animations
            collectionView.finishInfiniteScroll()
        });
        
    }
}
```

### Custom indicator

You can use custom indicator instead of default `UIActivityIndicatorView`.

Custom indicator must be a subclass of `UIView` and implement the following methods:

```objc
- (void)startAnimating;
- (void)stopAnimating;
```

Objective-C: 
```objc
// optionally you can use custom indicator view
CustomInfiniteIndicator *infiniteIndicator = [[CustomInfiniteIndicator alloc] initWithFrame:CGRectMake(0, 0, 40, 40)];

self.tableView.infiniteScrollIndicatorView = indicator;
```

Swift: 
```swift
// optionally you can use custom indicator view
tableView.infiniteScrollIndicatorView = CustomInfiniteIndicator(frame: CGRectMake(0, 0, 24, 24))
```

Please see example implementation of indicator view:

* Objective-C: [CustomInfiniteIndicator.m](https://github.com/pronebird/UIScrollView-InfiniteScroll/blob/master/InfiniteScrollViewDemo/CustomInfiniteIndicator.m)

* Swift: [CustomInfiniteIndicator.swift](https://github.com/pronebird/UIScrollView-InfiniteScroll/blob/master/InfiniteScrollViewDemoSwift/CustomInfiniteIndicator.swift)

At the moment InfiniteScroll uses indicator's frame directly so make sure you size custom indicator view beforehand. Such views as `UIImageView` or `UIActivityIndicatorView` will automatically resize themselves so no need to setup frame for them.

### Contributors

* Shigeyuki Takeuchi [@takeshig](https://github.com/takeshig)<br/>
  Add Carthage support
* Ivan Chirkov [@nsleader](https://github.com/nsleader)<br/>
  Custom indicators support
* Alex Shevchenko [@skeeet](https://github.com/skeeet)<br/>
  Fix for bounce back glitch when content size is smaller than view bounds
* Vlad [brightsider](https://github.com/brightsider)<br/>
  Add access to check loading status

### Attributions

Demo app icon by [PixelResort](http://appicontemplate.com/ios8/).
